docs/guide/README.md, before:

# Introduction

-   [About](#about)
-   [Features](#features)
-   [Why Minecraft Console Client?](#why-minecraft-console-client)
-   [Quick Intro (Youtube Videos)](#quick-intro)

## About

**Minecraft Console Client (MCC)** is a lightweight cross-platform open-source **Minecraft** TUI client for **Java edition** that allows you to connect to any Minecraft Java server, send commands and receive text messages in a fast and easy way without having to open the main Minecraft game.

It also provides various automations that you can enable for administration and other purposes, as well as extensible C# API for creating Bots.

It was originally made by [ORelio](https://github.com/ORelio) in 2012 on the [Minecraft Forum](http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/1314800-/), now it's maintained by him and many other contributors from the community.

## Features

-   Chat
    -   Send and recieve chat messages
    -   Log chat history
    -   Get alerted on certain keywords
    -   Auto Respond
-   Scheduled Tasks
-   Auto Reconnect
-   Auto Eat
-   Auto Attack Bot
-   Auto Craft Bot
-   Anti AFK Bot
-   API for creating Bots in C#
-   Docker Support

_NOTE: Some of mentioned features are disabled by default and you will have to turn them on in the configuration file and some may require additional configuration on your part for your specific usage._

## Why Minecraft Console Client?

-   Easy to use
-   Helpful community
-   Open-Source
-   Fast performance
-   Cross-Platform
-   Docker Support
-   10 years of continuous development
-   Active contibutors
-   Widely used

## Quick Intro

Don't have time to read through the documentation, we got you, our community has made some simple introduction videos about the **Minecraft Console Client**.

### The list of the tutorials:

Installation:

-   [Installation on Windows by Daenges](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BkCqOCa2uQw)
-   [Installation on Windows + Auto AFK and More by Dexter113](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FxJ0KFIHDrY)

Using Commands, Scripts and other features:

-   [Minecraft Console Client | Tutorial | Commands, Scripts, AppVars, Matches, Tasks and C# Scripts by Daenges](https://youtu.be/JbDpwwETEnU)
-   [Console Client Tutorial - Scripting by Zixxter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XE7rYBFJxn0)

Commit message:

Added Creating Chat Bots section

docs/guide/README.md, after:

# Introduction

-   [About](#about)
-   [Quick Intro (Youtube Videos)](#quick-intro)
-   [Features](#features)
-   [Why Minecraft Console Client?](#why-minecraft-console-client)
-   [Getting Help](#getting-help)

## About

**Minecraft Console Client (MCC)** is a lightweight cross-platform open-source **Minecraft** TUI client for **Java edition** that allows you to connect to any Minecraft Java server, send commands and receive text messages in a fast and easy way without having to open the main Minecraft game.

It also provides various automations that you can enable for administration and other purposes, as well as extensible C# API for creating Bots.

It was originally made by [ORelio](https://github.com/ORelio) in 2012 on the [Minecraft Forum](http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/1314800-/), now it's maintained by him and many other contributors from the community.

## Features

-   Chat
    -   Send and recieve chat messages
    -   Log chat history
    -   Get alerted on certain keywords
    -   Auto Respond
-   Scheduled Tasks
-   Auto Reconnect
-   Auto Eat
-   Auto Attack Bot
-   Auto Craft Bot
-   Anti AFK Bot
-   API for creating Bots in C#
-   Docker Support

_NOTE: Some of mentioned features are disabled by default and you will have to turn them on in the configuration file and some may require additional configuration on your part for your specific usage._

## Why Minecraft Console Client?

-   Easy to use
-   Helpful community
-   Open-Source
-   Fast performance
-   Cross-Platform
-   Docker Support
-   10 years of continuous development
-   Active contibutors
-   Widely used

## Quick Intro

Don't have time to read through the documentation, we got you, our community has made some simple introduction videos about the **Minecraft Console Client**.

### The list of the tutorials:

Installation:

-   [Installation on Windows by Daenges](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BkCqOCa2uQw)
-   [Installation on Windows + Auto AFK and More by Dexter113](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FxJ0KFIHDrY)

Using Commands, Scripts and other features:

-   [Minecraft Console Client | Tutorial | Commands, Scripts, AppVars, Matches, Tasks and C# Scripts by Daenges](https://youtu.be/JbDpwwETEnU)
-   [Console Client Tutorial - Scripting by Zixxter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XE7rYBFJxn0)

## Getting Help

MCC has a community that is willing to help, we have a Discussions section in out Github repository.

Click [here](https://github.com/MCCTeam/Minecraft-Console-Client/discussions) to access it.

### Before getting help

-   Please use the search option here or in the discussion section and read the documentation so we avoid duplicate questions. Thank you!\*\*
-   Please be kind and patient, respect others as they're the ones using their time to help you
