source/guide/usage.md, before:

# Usage

How to run the program:

-   [Running on Windows](#windows)
-   [Running on Linux, macOS](#linux-macos)
-   [Running using Docker](#docker)

Using the command line parameters:

-   [Examples](#quick-usage-of-mcc-with-examples)
-   [Command line parameters](#command-line-parameters)
-   [Internal commands](#internal-commands)

## Windows

Simply run `MinecraftClient.exe`

> **ℹ️ NOTE: On Windows it's best using [Windows Terminal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/terminal/install) for the best experience and looks. Some features like emojis in the [`/chunk`](#chunk) command do not work in CMD or Powershell 5**

## Linux, macOS

To run the client you need to type the following command in your terminal emulator:

```bash
./MinecraftClient
```

If you want to keep it running in the background you can use `screen` (Linux only)
Example:

```bash
# Start the screen
screen -S mcc

# Run it
./MinecraftClient

# Detach from the screen by pressing CTRL + A + D

# Re-attach if you want to have accces again
screen -r mcc
```

_Learn more on how to use the screen command: [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ZJiEX4rmN4)_

## Docker

See [Run using Docker](/guide/installation.md#using-docker)

## Command-line usage

**Minecraft Console Client** has a plethora of useful command line parameters, here you can learn about them.

### For people not familiar with the command line

For people who are not familiar with the usage of programs in the command line (terminal emulators), here we will explain what every single thing means, if you're already experienced you can skip this.

In command line (terminal emulators) you can run programs by specifying their name and hitting enter, usually programs have additional way of being configured, started or provided some additional data in a different manner, this is achieved by using command line parameters.

Command line parameters are written after the name of the program, they're separated by spaces and they can have a few different formats, examples:

-   `someparameter`
-   `-some-parameter`
-   `--some-other-parameter`
-   `--some-setting="some value"`
-   `-a=5`

Parameters with a single dash (`-`) are usually used for a single letter (short-hand) parameters, while the ones with a double dash (`--`) are being used for parameters with a longer/full name.

When you are reading examples, you will often see something like this: `<something here>`, this means that this is a place holder and it should be changed with some value, excluding the `<` and the `>`.

For example `<username>` you need to change to an username of your liking, example: `notch` (`<` and `>` should not be included).

`[` and `]` mean that a parameter is an optional one.

They also can hold some values, example from the MCC:

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe --debugmessages=false
```

When a parameter has a textual value that includes one more spaces, you will need to wrap it the value in double quotes (`"`), example: `--some-parameter="some text here with spaces in it"`

Here is an example for using a `--help` command line parameter for MCC that will print out a page on how to use MCC from the command line:

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe --help
```

### Quick usage of MCC with examples

> **ℹ️ NOTE: On Linux and macOS, you need to type: `./MinecraftClient` instead of `MinecraftClient.exe`**

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe --help
MinecraftClient.exe <username> <password> <server>
MinecraftClient.exe <username> <password> <server> "/mycommand"
MinecraftClient.exe --setting=value [--other settings]
MinecraftClient.exe --section.setting=value [--other settings]
MinecraftClient.exe <settings-file.ini> [--other settings]
```

Examples:

```bash
# Logging in as a user: notch, with a password: password123 onto a server with the ip: mc.someserver.com:25565
MinecraftClient.exe notch password123 mc.someserver.com:25565

# Overriding a setting from MinecraftClient.ini using a command line parameter
MinecraftClient.exe --debugmessages=false

# Providing a custom settings ini file and overriding a language to Chinese
MinecraftClient.exe CustomSettingsFile.ini --language=zh
```

### Rules of using the command line parameters

You can mix and match arguments by following theses rules:

-   First positional argument may be either the login or a settings file
-   Other positional arguments are read in order: login, password, server, command
-   Arguments starting with `--` can be in any order and position

Examples and further explanations:

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe <login> <password> <server>
```

-   This will automatically connect you to the chosen server.
-   You may omit password and/or server to specify e.g. only the login
-   To specify a server but ask password interactively, use `""` as password.
-   To specify offline mode with no password, use `-` as password.

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe <login> <password> <server> "/mycommand"
```

-   This will automatically send `/mycommand` to the server and close.
-   To send several commands and/or stay connected, use the 1ScriptScheduler1 bot instead.

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe <myconfig.ini>
```

-   This will load the specified configuration file
-   If the file contains login / password / server ip, it will automatically connect.

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe --setting=value [--other settings]
```

-   Specify settings on the command-line, see possible value in the configuration file
-   Use `--section.setting=value` for settings outside the `[Main]` section
-   Example: `--antiafk.enabled=true` for enabling the `AntiAFK` bot

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe <myconfig.ini> <login> <password> <server> [--other settings]
```

-   Load the specified configuration file and override some settings from the file

## Internal Commands

These commands can be performed from the chat prompt, scripts or remote control.

From chat prompt, commands must by default be prepended with a slash, eg. `/quit`.

In scripts and remote control, no slash is needed to perform the command, eg. `quit`.

> **ℹ️ NOTE: Some commands may not be documented yet or are defined in description of Chat Bots, use `/help` to list them all, or you can contribute to this page.**

### `animation`

-   **Description:**

    Swing your main or off hand.

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /animation <mainhand|offhand>
    ```

### `changeslot`

-   **Description:**

    Change your selected slot in the hotbar.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /changeslot <1-9>
    ```

### `chunk`

-   **Description:**

    Displays the chunk loading status in a nice way.

    > **⚠️ WARNING: To use this feature you need to enable the [Terrain and Movements](configuration.md#terrainandmovements)**

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need a terminal with emoji support, like Powershell 7, Windows Terminal or Alacritty, if you do not want emoji support and want to use cmd or powershell 5, disable emojis with: [`enableemoji`](configuration.md#enableemoji)**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /chunk status [chunkX chunkZ|locationX locationY locationZ]
    ```

    How it looks:

    ![Chunk status](http://i.pics.rs/DDB9W.png)

### `dig`

-   **Description:**

    Dig a block on a specific coordinate.

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /dig <x> <y> <z>
    ```

-   **Example:**

    ```
    /dig 127 63 12
    ```

### `dropitem`

-   **Description:**

    Drop all items of a specific type from your inventory.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /dropitem <itemtype>
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: All item types can be found [here](https://github.com/MCCTeam/Minecraft-Console-Client/blob/master/MinecraftClient/Inventory/ItemType.cs).**

-   **Example:**

    ```
    /dropitem diamond
    ```

### `entity`

-   **Description:**

    Attack an entity, use an entity or get a list of entities around you.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) and [entityhandling](configuration.md#entityhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

-   **Usage:**

    Basic usage:

    ```
    /entity <id|entitytype> <attack|use>
    ```

    Get a list of entities around you:

    ```
    /entity
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: All entity types can be found [here](https://github.com/MCCTeam/Minecraft-Console-Client/blob/master/MinecraftClient/Mapping/EntityType.cs).**

-   **Examples:**

    Attack a Zombie:

    ```
    /entity Zombie attack
    ```

### `quit`

-   **Alias:** `exit`
-   **Description:**

    Disconnect from the server and close the application

### `reco`

-   **Description:**

    Disconnect and reconnect to the server

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /reco [account]
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: `[account]` is an account alias defined in accounts file, for more info check out [accountlist](configuration.html#accountlist)**

### `connect`

-   **Description:**

    Go to the given server and resume the script

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /connect <server> [account]
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: `<server>` is either a server IP or a server alias defined in servers file, for more info check out [serverlist](configuration.html#serverlist)**

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: `[account]` is an account alias defined in accounts file, for more info check out [accountlist](configuration.html#accountlist)**

### `script`

-   **Description:**

    Run a script containing a list of commands

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /script <script name>
    ```

### `send`

-   **Description:**

    Send a message or a command to the server

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /send <text>
    ```

### `respawn`

-   **Description:**

    Use this to respawn if you are dead (like clicking "respawn" in-game)

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /respawn
    ```

### `log`

-   **Description:**

    Display some text in the console (useful for scripts)

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /log <text>
    ```

-   Example:

    ```
    /log this is some text
    ```

### `list`

-   **Description:**

    List players logged in to the server (uses tab list info sent by server)

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /list
    ```

### `set`

-   **Description:**

    Set a value which can be used as `%variable%` in further commands

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /set <variable>=<value>
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    ```
    /set abc=123
    ```

### `setrnd`

-   **Description:**

    Set a `%variable%` randomly to one of the provided values

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /setrnd <variable> string1 "\"string2\" string3"
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    ```
    /setrnd <variable> -7to10
    ```

    (Set a `%variable%` to a number from -7 to 9)

### `sneak`

-   **Description:**

    Toggle sneaking.

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /Sneak
    ```

### `tps`

-   **Description:**

    Get the server TPS (Ticks Per Second).

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /tps
    ```

### `useitem`

-   **Description:**

    Use item in the hand, this can be used to do a right click on items which open menus on servers.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

    > **⚠️ WARNING: The [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) is currently not supported in `1.4.6 - 1.10`**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /useitem
    ```

### `useblock`

-   **Description:**

    Place a block from a hand on a specific coordinate or open an inventory: - chest/trap chest - furnace - brewing stand - dispenser/dropper - hopper - shulker - loom

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) and [Terrain and Movements](configuration.md#terrainandmovements) enabled in order for this to work.**

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: Not all inventories have a GUI representation in an ASCII art format.**

    > **⚠️ WARNING: The [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) is currently not supported in `1.4.6 - 1.10`.**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /useblock <x> <y> <z>
    ```

-   **Example:**

    ```
    /useblock 43 72 7
    ```

### `wait`

-   **Description:**

    Wait X ticks (10 ticks = ~1 second. Only for scripts)

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /wait <time>
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    ```
    /wait 20
    ```

### `move`

-   **Description:**

    Used for moving when terrain and movements feature is enabled.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Terrain and Movements](configuration.md#terrainandmovements) enabled in order for this to work.**

    > **⚠️ WARNING: The [Terrain and Movements](configuration.md#terrainandmovements) is currently not supported in `1.4.6 - 1.10`.**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /move <on|off|get|up|down|east|west|north|south|center|x y z|gravity [on|off]> [-f]: walk or start walking. "-f": force unsafe movements like falling or touching fire
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    Enable gravity

    ```
    /move gravity on
    ```

    Move to coordinates:

    ```
    /move 125 72 34
    ```

    Move to a center of a block:

    ```
    /move center
    ```

### `look`

-   **Description:**

    Used for looking at direction when terrain and movements is enabled

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /look <x y z|yaw pitch|up|down|east|west|north|south>
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    ```
    /look up
    ```

    ```
    /look east
    ```

### `inventory`

-   **Description:**

    Used for inventory manipulation.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

    > **⚠️ WARNING: The [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) is currently not supported in `1.4.6 - 1.10`.**

    MCC defines inventories as containers internally, so player's inventory, chests, droppers, dispensers, hoppers, chest minecarts, barrels, furnaces, etc... are all considered a container, and each one of them has it's ID, the words container and inventory can be used interchangeably.

    Inventory has slots and each one of them has an id.

    An example of player inventory with annotated IDs in ASCII art and a list of items:

    ![Picture Not Loaded!](http://i.pics.rs/33yn9.png "Player Inventory")

-   **Usage:**

    Basic usage:

    ```
    /inventory <player|container|<id>> <action> [action parameters]
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: player and container can be simplified with p and c accordingly**

    Show/Preview items in an inventory:

    ```
    /inventory <player|id>
    ```

    Click on an item in an inventory:

    ```
    /inventory <player|container|<id>> click <slot id> [left|right|middle]
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: The default click is left click**

    Close an inventory:

    ```
    /inventory <player|container|<id>> close
    ```

    Drop item(s) from an inventory:

    ```
    /inventory <player|id> drop <slot id> <number of items|all>
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: To drop all items from a slot, you can use:** `all`

    Give an item to the player inventory from a creative menu when in the creative mode:

    ```
    /inventory creativegive <slot id> <item type> <amount>
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: To find item types, check out [this list](https://github.com/MCCTeam/Minecraft-Console-Client/blob/master/MinecraftClient/Inventory/ItemType.cs)**

    Delete an item from a player's inventory when in the creative mode:

    ```
    /inventory creativedelete <slot id>
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    Show player's inventory:

    ```
    /inventory player
    ```

    Show/Preview items in an inventory using an id:

    ```
    /inventory 3
    ```

    Click on an item in player's inventory in slot number/id `36`:

    ```
    /inventory player click 36
    ```

    Right-Click on an item in slot number/id `4` in an inventory with an id `2`:

    ```
    /inventory 2 click 4 right
    ```

    Close an inventory with an id `2`:

    ```
    /inventory 2 close
    ```

    Drop a single item from a player's inventory in slot number/id `36`:

    ```
    /inventory player drop 36 1
    ```

    Drop all items from a player's inventory in slot number/id `37`:

    ```
    /inventory player drop 37 all
    ```

    Give an item to the player inventory from a creative menu when in the creative mode:

    ```
    /inventory creativegive 36 diamondblock 64
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: To find item types, check out [this list](https://github.com/MCCTeam/Minecraft-Console-Client/blob/master/MinecraftClient/Inventory/ItemType.cs)**

    Delete an item from a player's inventory in slot number/id `36` when in the creative mode:

    ```
    /inventory creativedelete 36
    ```

### `debug`

-   **Description:**

    Toggle debug messages, useful for chatbot developers.

### `help`

-   **Description:**

    Show commands help.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: Use "/send /help" for server help**

Commit message:

Added shiftclick command, fixed formatting for useblock command

source/guide/usage.md, after:

# Usage

How to run the program:

-   [Running on Windows](#windows)
-   [Running on Linux, macOS](#linux-macos)
-   [Running using Docker](#docker)

Using the command line parameters:

-   [Examples](#quick-usage-of-mcc-with-examples)
-   [Command line parameters](#command-line-parameters)
-   [Internal commands](#internal-commands)

## Windows

Simply run `MinecraftClient.exe`

> **ℹ️ NOTE: On Windows it's best using [Windows Terminal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/terminal/install) for the best experience and looks. Some features like emojis in the [`/chunk`](#chunk) command do not work in CMD or Powershell 5**

## Linux, macOS

To run the client you need to type the following command in your terminal emulator:

```bash
./MinecraftClient
```

If you want to keep it running in the background you can use `screen` (Linux only)
Example:

```bash
# Start the screen
screen -S mcc

# Run it
./MinecraftClient

# Detach from the screen by pressing CTRL + A + D

# Re-attach if you want to have accces again
screen -r mcc
```

_Learn more on how to use the screen command: [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ZJiEX4rmN4)_

## Docker

See [Run using Docker](/guide/installation.md#using-docker)

## Command-line usage

**Minecraft Console Client** has a plethora of useful command line parameters, here you can learn about them.

### For people not familiar with the command line

For people who are not familiar with the usage of programs in the command line (terminal emulators), here we will explain what every single thing means, if you're already experienced you can skip this.

In command line (terminal emulators) you can run programs by specifying their name and hitting enter, usually programs have additional way of being configured, started or provided some additional data in a different manner, this is achieved by using command line parameters.

Command line parameters are written after the name of the program, they're separated by spaces and they can have a few different formats, examples:

-   `someparameter`
-   `-some-parameter`
-   `--some-other-parameter`
-   `--some-setting="some value"`
-   `-a=5`

Parameters with a single dash (`-`) are usually used for a single letter (short-hand) parameters, while the ones with a double dash (`--`) are being used for parameters with a longer/full name.

When you are reading examples, you will often see something like this: `<something here>`, this means that this is a place holder and it should be changed with some value, excluding the `<` and the `>`.

For example `<username>` you need to change to an username of your liking, example: `notch` (`<` and `>` should not be included).

`[` and `]` mean that a parameter is an optional one.

They also can hold some values, example from the MCC:

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe --debugmessages=false
```

When a parameter has a textual value that includes one more spaces, you will need to wrap it the value in double quotes (`"`), example: `--some-parameter="some text here with spaces in it"`

Here is an example for using a `--help` command line parameter for MCC that will print out a page on how to use MCC from the command line:

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe --help
```

### Quick usage of MCC with examples

> **ℹ️ NOTE: On Linux and macOS, you need to type: `./MinecraftClient` instead of `MinecraftClient.exe`**

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe --help
MinecraftClient.exe <username> <password> <server>
MinecraftClient.exe <username> <password> <server> "/mycommand"
MinecraftClient.exe --setting=value [--other settings]
MinecraftClient.exe --section.setting=value [--other settings]
MinecraftClient.exe <settings-file.ini> [--other settings]
```

Examples:

```bash
# Logging in as a user: notch, with a password: password123 onto a server with the ip: mc.someserver.com:25565
MinecraftClient.exe notch password123 mc.someserver.com:25565

# Overriding a setting from MinecraftClient.ini using a command line parameter
MinecraftClient.exe --debugmessages=false

# Providing a custom settings ini file and overriding a language to Chinese
MinecraftClient.exe CustomSettingsFile.ini --language=zh
```

### Rules of using the command line parameters

You can mix and match arguments by following theses rules:

-   First positional argument may be either the login or a settings file
-   Other positional arguments are read in order: login, password, server, command
-   Arguments starting with `--` can be in any order and position

Examples and further explanations:

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe <login> <password> <server>
```

-   This will automatically connect you to the chosen server.
-   You may omit password and/or server to specify e.g. only the login
-   To specify a server but ask password interactively, use `""` as password.
-   To specify offline mode with no password, use `-` as password.

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe <login> <password> <server> "/mycommand"
```

-   This will automatically send `/mycommand` to the server and close.
-   To send several commands and/or stay connected, use the 1ScriptScheduler1 bot instead.

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe <myconfig.ini>
```

-   This will load the specified configuration file
-   If the file contains login / password / server ip, it will automatically connect.

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe --setting=value [--other settings]
```

-   Specify settings on the command-line, see possible value in the configuration file
-   Use `--section.setting=value` for settings outside the `[Main]` section
-   Example: `--antiafk.enabled=true` for enabling the `AntiAFK` bot

```bash
MinecraftClient.exe <myconfig.ini> <login> <password> <server> [--other settings]
```

-   Load the specified configuration file and override some settings from the file

## Internal Commands

These commands can be performed from the chat prompt, scripts or remote control.

From chat prompt, commands must by default be prepended with a slash, eg. `/quit`.

In scripts and remote control, no slash is needed to perform the command, eg. `quit`.

> **ℹ️ NOTE: Some commands may not be documented yet or are defined in description of Chat Bots, use `/help` to list them all, or you can contribute to this page.**

### `animation`

-   **Description:**

    Swing your main or off hand.

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /animation <mainhand|offhand>
    ```

### `changeslot`

-   **Description:**

    Change your selected slot in the hotbar.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /changeslot <1-9>
    ```

### `chunk`

-   **Description:**

    Displays the chunk loading status in a nice way.

    > **⚠️ WARNING: To use this feature you need to enable the [Terrain and Movements](configuration.md#terrainandmovements)**

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need a terminal with emoji support, like Powershell 7, Windows Terminal or Alacritty, if you do not want emoji support and want to use cmd or powershell 5, disable emojis with: [`enableemoji`](configuration.md#enableemoji)**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /chunk status [chunkX chunkZ|locationX locationY locationZ]
    ```

    How it looks:

    ![Chunk status](http://i.pics.rs/DDB9W.png)

### `dig`

-   **Description:**

    Dig a block on a specific coordinate.

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /dig <x> <y> <z>
    ```

-   **Example:**

    ```
    /dig 127 63 12
    ```

### `dropitem`

-   **Description:**

    Drop all items of a specific type from your inventory.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /dropitem <itemtype>
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: All item types can be found [here](https://github.com/MCCTeam/Minecraft-Console-Client/blob/master/MinecraftClient/Inventory/ItemType.cs).**

-   **Example:**

    ```
    /dropitem diamond
    ```

### `entity`

-   **Description:**

    Attack an entity, use an entity or get a list of entities around you.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) and [entityhandling](configuration.md#entityhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

-   **Usage:**

    Basic usage:

    ```
    /entity <id|entitytype> <attack|use>
    ```

    Get a list of entities around you:

    ```
    /entity
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: All entity types can be found [here](https://github.com/MCCTeam/Minecraft-Console-Client/blob/master/MinecraftClient/Mapping/EntityType.cs).**

-   **Examples:**

    Attack a Zombie:

    ```
    /entity Zombie attack
    ```

### `quit`

-   **Alias:** `exit`
-   **Description:**

    Disconnect from the server and close the application

### `reco`

-   **Description:**

    Disconnect and reconnect to the server

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /reco [account]
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: `[account]` is an account alias defined in accounts file, for more info check out [accountlist](configuration.html#accountlist)**

### `connect`

-   **Description:**

    Go to the given server and resume the script

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /connect <server> [account]
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: `<server>` is either a server IP or a server alias defined in servers file, for more info check out [serverlist](configuration.html#serverlist)**

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: `[account]` is an account alias defined in accounts file, for more info check out [accountlist](configuration.html#accountlist)**

### `script`

-   **Description:**

    Run a script containing a list of commands

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /script <script name>
    ```

### `send`

-   **Description:**

    Send a message or a command to the server

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /send <text>
    ```

### `respawn`

-   **Description:**

    Use this to respawn if you are dead (like clicking "respawn" in-game)

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /respawn
    ```

### `log`

-   **Description:**

    Display some text in the console (useful for scripts)

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /log <text>
    ```

-   Example:

    ```
    /log this is some text
    ```

### `list`

-   **Description:**

    List players logged in to the server (uses tab list info sent by server)

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /list
    ```

### `set`

-   **Description:**

    Set a value which can be used as `%variable%` in further commands

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /set <variable>=<value>
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    ```
    /set abc=123
    ```

### `setrnd`

-   **Description:**

    Set a `%variable%` randomly to one of the provided values

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /setrnd <variable> string1 "\"string2\" string3"
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    ```
    /setrnd <variable> -7to10
    ```

    (Set a `%variable%` to a number from -7 to 9)

### `sneak`

-   **Description:**

    Toggle sneaking.

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /Sneak
    ```

### `tps`

-   **Description:**

    Get the server TPS (Ticks Per Second).

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /tps
    ```

### `useitem`

-   **Description:**

    Use item in the hand, this can be used to do a right click on items which open menus on servers.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

    > **⚠️ WARNING: The [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) is currently not supported in `1.4.6 - 1.10`**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /useitem
    ```

### `useblock`

-   **Description:**

    Place a block from a hand on a specific coordinate or open an inventory:

    -   chest/trap chest
    -   furnace
    -   brewing stand
    -   dispenser/dropper
    -   hopper
    -   shulker
    -   loom

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) and [Terrain and Movements](configuration.md#terrainandmovements) enabled in order for this to work.**

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: Not all inventories have a GUI representation in an ASCII art format.**

    > **⚠️ WARNING: The [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) is currently not supported in `1.4.6 - 1.10`.**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /useblock <x> <y> <z>
    ```

-   **Example:**

    ```
    /useblock 43 72 7
    ```

### `wait`

-   **Description:**

    Wait X ticks (10 ticks = ~1 second. Only for scripts)

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /wait <time>
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    ```
    /wait 20
    ```

### `move`

-   **Description:**

    Used for moving when terrain and movements feature is enabled.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Terrain and Movements](configuration.md#terrainandmovements) enabled in order for this to work.**

    > **⚠️ WARNING: The [Terrain and Movements](configuration.md#terrainandmovements) is currently not supported in `1.4.6 - 1.10`.**

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /move <on|off|get|up|down|east|west|north|south|center|x y z|gravity [on|off]> [-f]: walk or start walking. "-f": force unsafe movements like falling or touching fire
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    Enable gravity

    ```
    /move gravity on
    ```

    Move to coordinates:

    ```
    /move 125 72 34
    ```

    Move to a center of a block:

    ```
    /move center
    ```

### `look`

-   **Description:**

    Used for looking at direction when terrain and movements is enabled

-   **Usage:**

    ```
    /look <x y z|yaw pitch|up|down|east|west|north|south>
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    ```
    /look up
    ```

    ```
    /look east
    ```

### `inventory`

-   **Description:**

    Used for inventory manipulation.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: You need to have [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) enabled in order for this to work.**

    > **⚠️ WARNING: The [Inventory Handling](configuration.md#inventoryhandling) is currently not supported in `1.4.6 - 1.10`.**

    MCC defines inventories as containers internally, so player's inventory, chests, droppers, dispensers, hoppers, chest minecarts, barrels, furnaces, etc... are all considered a container, and each one of them has it's ID, the words container and inventory can be used interchangeably.

    Inventory has slots and each one of them has an id.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: This command DOES NOT physically open a container (eg. chest), for that you need to use [`useblock`](#useblock) command first.**

    An example of player inventory with annotated IDs in ASCII art and a list of items:

    ![Picture Not Loaded!](http://i.pics.rs/33yn9.png "Player Inventory")

-   **Usage:**

    Basic usage:

    ```
    /inventory <player|container|<id>> <action> [action parameters]
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: player and container can be simplified with p and c accordingly**

    Actions:

    -   `click`
    -   `shiftclick`
    -   `drop`

    Show/Preview items in an inventory:

    ```
    /inventory <player|id>
    ```

    Click/Shift-Click on an item in an inventory:

    ```
    /inventory <player|container|<id>> <click|shiftclick> <slot id> [left|right|middle]
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: The default click is left click**

    Close an inventory:

    ```
    /inventory <player|container|<id>> close
    ```

    Drop item(s) from an inventory:

    ```
    /inventory <player|id> drop <slot id> <number of items|all>
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: To drop all items from a slot, you can use:** `all`

    Give an item to the player inventory from a creative menu when in the creative mode:

    ```
    /inventory creativegive <slot id> <item type> <amount>
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: To find item types, check out [this list](https://github.com/MCCTeam/Minecraft-Console-Client/blob/master/MinecraftClient/Inventory/ItemType.cs)**

    Delete an item from a player's inventory when in the creative mode:

    ```
    /inventory creativedelete <slot id>
    ```

-   **Examples:**

    Show player's inventory:

    ```
    /inventory player
    ```

    Show/Preview items in an inventory using an id:

    ```
    /inventory 3
    ```

    Click on an item in player's inventory in slot number/id `36`:

    ```
    /inventory player click 36
    ```

    Right-Click on an item in slot number/id `4` in an inventory with an id `2`:

    ```
    /inventory 2 click 4 right
    ```

    Close an inventory with an id `2`:

    ```
    /inventory 2 close
    ```

    Drop a single item from a player's inventory in slot number/id `36`:

    ```
    /inventory player drop 36 1
    ```

    Drop all items from a player's inventory in slot number/id `37`:

    ```
    /inventory player drop 37 all
    ```

    Give an item to the player inventory from a creative menu when in the creative mode:

    ```
    /inventory creativegive 36 diamondblock 64
    ```

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: To find item types, check out [this list](https://github.com/MCCTeam/Minecraft-Console-Client/blob/master/MinecraftClient/Inventory/ItemType.cs)**

    Delete an item from a player's inventory in slot number/id `36` when in the creative mode:

    ```
    /inventory creativedelete 36
    ```

### `debug`

-   **Description:**

    Toggle debug messages, useful for chatbot developers.

### `help`

-   **Description:**

    Show commands help.

    > **ℹ️ NOTE: Use "/send /help" for server help**
